# Symmetric encryption
Symetric encryption is a type of encryption where only one key (a secret key) is used to both encrypt and decrypt electronic data. The entities communicating via symmetric encryption must exchange the key so that it can be used in the decryption process.  
The secret key that the sender and recipient both use could be a specific password/code or it can be random string of letters or numbers that have been generated by a secure random number generator (RNG).

## Key-terms
[Schrijf hier een lijst met belangrijke termen met eventueel een korte uitleg.]

## Opdracht
1. Find one more historic cipher besides the Caesar cipher.
2. Find two digital ciphers that are being used today.
3. Send a symmetrically encrypted message to one of your peers via the public Slack channel. They should be able to decrypt the message using a key you share with them. Try to think of a way to share this encryption key without revealing it to everyone. You are not allowed to use any private messages or other communication channels besides the public Slack channel. Analyse the shortcomings of symmetric encryption for sending messages.

### Gebruikte bronnen
- [Symmetric Key Encryption - why, where and how it’s used in banking](https://www.cryptomathic.com/news-events/blog/symmetric-key-encryption-why-where-and-how-its-used-in-banking)
- 

### Ervaren problemen
None

### Resultaat
**1. Find one more historic cipher besides the Caesar cipher.**


**2. Find two digital ciphers that are being used today.**


**3. Send a symmetrically encrypted message to one of your peers via the public Slack channel. They should be able to decrypt the message using a key you share with them. Try to think of a way to share this encryption key without revealing it to everyone. You are not allowed to use any private messages or other communication channels besides the public Slack channel. Analyse the shortcomings of symmetric encryption for sending messages.**

