# S3
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. Customers of all sizes and industries can use Amazon S3 to store and protect any amount of data for a range of use cases, such as data lakes, websites, mobile applications, backup and restore, archive, enterprise applications, IoT devices, and big data analytics. Amazon S3 provides management features so that you can optimize, organize, and configure access to your data to meet your specific business, organizational, and compliance requirements.

## Key-terms

## Assignment

<ins>Exercise 1:<ins> 

- Create new S3 bucket with the following requirements: Region: Frankfurt (eu-central-1)
- Upload a cat picture to your bucket.
- Share the object URL of your cat picture with a peer.
- Make sure they are able to see the picture.

<ins>Exercise 2:<ins>

- Create new bucket with the following requirements: Region: Frankfurt (eu-central-1)
- Upload the four files that make up AWS’ demo website.
- Enable static website hosting.
- Share the bucket website endpoint with a peer. Make sure they are able to see the website.

### Used sources
- [What is Amazon S3?](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/Welcome.html)
- [Tutorial: Configuring a static website on Amazon S3](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/HostingWebsiteOnS3Setup.html)

### Encountered problems
- My bucket/object was not public. I had to search how to make my bucket/object public.

### Result

**<ins>Exercise 1:<ins>** 

**- Create new S3 bucket with the following requirements: Region: Frankfurt (eu-central-1)**



- Upload a cat picture to your bucket.
- Share the object URL of your cat picture with a peer.
- Make sure they are able to see the picture.

```json
{
    "Version": "2012-10-17",
    "Statement": [
        {
            "Sid": "PublicReadGetObject",
            "Effect": "Allow",
            "Principal": "*",
            "Action": "s3:GetObject",
            "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::mygremlinbucket/*"
        }
    ]
}
```