# EC2
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) provides on-demand, scalable computing capacity in the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Cloud. Using Amazon EC2 reduces hardware costs so you can develop and deploy applications faster. You can use Amazon EC2 to launch as many or as few virtual servers as you need, configure security and networking, and manage storage. You can add capacity (scale up) to handle compute-heavy tasks, such as monthly or yearly processes, or spikes in website traffic. When usage decreases, you can reduce capacity (scale down) again.

## Key-terms

## Assignment

<ins>Exercise 1:</ins>
- Navigate to the EC2 menu.
- Launch an EC2 instance with the following requirements:
    - AMI: Amazon Linux 2 AMI (HVM), SSD Volume Type
    - Instance type: t2.micro
    - Default network, no preference for subnet
    - Termination protection: enabled
        - User data:  
            ```
            #!/bin/bash
            yum -y install httpd
            systemctl enable httpd
            systemctl start httpd
            echo '<h1>Hello From Your Web Server!</h1>' > /var/www/html/index.html
            ```
    - Root volume: general purpose SSD, Size: 8 GiB
    - New Security Group:
        - Name: Web server SG
        - Rules: Allow SSH, HTTP and HTTPS from anywhere

<ins>Exercise 2:</ins>

- Wait for the Status Checks to get out of the initialization stage. When you click the Status Checks tab, you should see that the System reachability and the Instance reachability checks have passed.
- Log in to your EC2 instance using an ssh connection.
- Terminate your instance.

### Used sources
[Plaats hier de bronnen die je hebt gebruikt.]

### Encountered problems

### Result
